[audio playing...]
Let me introduce you to Clark, my city.
It's eclectic. Just like Liverpool. It's
a center for culture, science,
education, philosophy and trade.
mysteries are full of students from
around the world.
Today that between Asia and Europe, you
can see our transnational history carved
out in the different architecture. Here
is where the first concrete skyscraper
was built in Soviet Union, and amazing
monument of constructivism, made from
concrete and iron using horses.
Harkey is only 40 kilometers from Russia
and has become a city on the front line.
From the first days are busy streets
with targets with rockets, classement
air bombs.
But just like concrete and iron are hard
to destroy. Our spirits are also
unbreakable. As each of us bravely
questions our responsibility, asking,
How can I help to win to survive.
And for a moment, concerts were silent
and Philharmonic music close close the
doors as musicians, like stars couldn't
have put down the instruments and became
a frontline volunteer.
I was meant to play a concert in London
on the 28th of February.
On the morning of 24th, a friend of mine
came knocking on my door shouting, wake
up, or you will sleep through the war.
For the next few days, myself and other
artists gathered in a small flat near
the center.
People were coming and going and we were
trying to work out should we stay? Or
should we leave.
I received a phone call from a friend in
the more dangerous district saying that
there was a basement with 450 people
that they didn't have anything. No food,
no water. And it's too dangerous to go
outside. It was the moment I realized
that I must say that there was a
responsibility to provide and seek
resources. The flight I was in became
headquarters and everyone was an actor
or connected to music, art culture. It
was a little chaotic in the moment.
Someone provides something and it's
distributed to anyone who needs sharing
everything. It was a very intense
process. After some time, it became more
organized. And we had districts and
volunteers in each area. Because it was
dangerous everywhere in Harkey was
dangerous. But I know a lot of examples
of bravery. And for me what I'm doing is
not brave.
It was stressful and frightening. It was
a lot of things.
Everything makes you cry. But inside you
have this feeling that you are in the
right place. You are part of something
bigger than yourself, that we are all
equal. All Connect.
Everyone helps everyone. And it doesn't
matter who you were before. You could
have been a businessman with a Tesla car
or an artist drive something very shady.
Even the Chief Commander of the Military
Base work without hierarchy. It was a
horizontal connection. It was
solidarity. You call someone if you
needed something, and you solved it.
It felt that 100 People were one
before the full scale invasion. I was
asking these questions. Who am I?
What am I?
This situation gave me the answers
it feels like making music hasn't
mattered for a long time.
A lot of musicians reject music right
now.
To play you must be in the moment. Be
present. Connect to your emotions is
very stressful and painful. And when you
start to play, you feel your pain and it
comes in such a way that you stop and
think never again.
We don't have the space to be emotional.
So you go around in the circle and come
back to the idea that is not the time.
Maybe later